Let's get started on using the cat command.
To create the test1 file, type:
"cat > test1" and press the Enter key.
Type the sentence, "This is Sample File1", and press the Enter key,
and press Ctrl+D to save the file.
To create the test2 file, type:
"cat > test2" and press the Enter key.
Type the sentence, "This is Sample File2", and press the Enter key,
and press Ctrl+D to save the file.
To create the test3 file, type:
"cat > test3" and press the Enter key.
Type the sentence, "This is Sample File3",
and press the Enter key, and press Ctrl+D to save the file.
To combine the files test1 and test2 into the file newtest, type:
"cat test1 test2 > newtest",
and press the Enter key.
To view the newtest file, type:
"cat newtest", and press the Enter key.
The file newtest is displayed at the command prompt.
To append a file to the end of newtest file, type:
"cat test3 >> newtest",
and press the Enter key.
To view the newtest file, type: "cat newtest", and press the Enter key.
The file newtest is displayed at the command prompt.
To append the newtest file, type:
"cat >> newtest",
and press the Enter key.
Type the sentence, "The Sample File3 is appended with another line",
and press the Enter key, and press Ctrl+D.
You will return to the command prompt.
At the command prompt, type:
"cat newtest", and press the Enter key.
The newtest file is displayed.